"Shoot for the Moon"
Business Editorial Section
The Wall Street Journal
September 23, 2081

Trepidation is today's buzzword when it comes to predictions of the soon-to-burgeon International Lunar Market.  Every financial publication I read sounds like an overbearing mother.  They ask, "how will you hedge your portfolio with respect to the creation of an entirely new market?"  And this is a fair question--it is true that there are risks to investing in the hasty colonization of our planet's natural satellite.  After all, if the great experiment of moon colonization failed, the globus would lose all value, and the conversion rate for getting your money into globus in the first place is $3.72 : 1g, meaning that if the market were shriveling, pulling out would not only require liquidating stock, but also liquidating your globus. But this economy's warts of worry will soon be hidden by the flattering explosive growth of individual stocks!  Don't you want to be there for the century's greatest opportunity to multiply an investment times 100, times 1000, or times any arbitrarily large number you can think of? The main risk I see is one of underinvestment!

It's hard for me to dispute valid points made by a certain overly conservative economist who recently appeared in the New York Times.  He argued that Everline-ilk Financial Group's benevolent investment in the lunar economy was compelled by motives ulterior to the economic growth of people across the world who are astute enough to put their own stake in the development of the Moon.  Strangely, while this economist acknowledged Everline-ilk's significant investment in Shell-Beignet Moon Dust Collection/Refinement/Energy Distribution company, and Everline-ilk's purchase of bonds from Wal-Mark, this same economist also argued that Everline-ilk (ILM: EVIL ) could somehow manage to hedge itself against the collapse of the moon.  In fact, he went so far as to say that Everline-ilk could be incentivized to allow or encourage the moon's very collapse.

The world economy is currently growing at a rate that is, in a month-long or year-long time frame, more steady and explosive than in the seven decades prior to the 2080s.  However, in a shorter time frame (a day or week), individual companies and their stocks bounce dramatically and unpredictably, and those who are not big enough to weather the storm of daily flash crashes must be absorbed by large, variance-resilient blue-chip companies in order to survive intense devaluation.  This is due to the fact that the quantum computing revolution allowed self-teaching or "heuristic" trading algorithms to seize control of the market.  At this point, flash crashes happen as often as a heart beat on an EKG.  These heuristic algorithms are nondeterministic, and advocates for government intervention of computerized trading argue that it is Capitalism's luck that the addition of these powerful trading bots has, so far, perpetuated economic growth instead of collapse.

Anti-business, big-government propagandists that have no faith in the algorithms' continued benefits to our economy.  They argue that, some day, a flash crash will cause a dip that does not rebound.  That's why restrictions against trading programs have been put on the International Lunar Market.  On the bright side, this further opens up the moon's market to you, the individual trader!  No longer will you have to compete with quantum-powered investment banks making millions of trades every microsecond.

The New York Times economist suggested going long on the globus as a middle ground for the trepidatious investor who is sideways on the market.  I would argue that this is an anticapitalistic sin.  Every time an amount of Earth currency is converted to globus, the increase in liquid globus will be logged in computer databases around the world, and the more uncommitted globus floating in the market place, the more unsure the general market atmosphere will become.  On the contrary, a globus magnanimously committed to tangible growth will buy you a stock that pays dividends in feelings of fulfilled consumer responsibility and contribution to the international Lunar community.

To go long on the globus at a higher velocity, why not invest in Everline-ilk?  Rather than being subject to the whims of an entire currency, let yourself be cradled in the arms of the largest financial institution in the world, which is doing its best to promote the growth of the moon through its generous investment in lunar colonial growth.  Don't limit yourself to stifled profits of this emerging market.  Have your dollars, Euros, and yen converted to globus and ready to trade on July 4th, 2082!

****About the author****

Ken Livelier is a public relations consultant specializing in finance.  He currently works at Citizens for Abundant Profits.