September 21, 2080
Time-Life Magazine for Tablet

The Freeze and the Thaw

By 2060, advances in quantum computing had finally had a decade's chance to percolate from the purely academic community to industry. ÊThis process took intensive efforts of a collaborative between MIT, Berkeley, and several shadowy think tanks whose domestic loyalty was closely monitored by the US government. ÊThe goal of the project was one of abstraction; to hide the lower-level differences between quantum computing and binary obsolescence such that, in the eyes of a lay-person, the only advancement between the two was the drastic reduction of computational latency. ÊThe higher the level of abstraction from the concept of superposition, the more people would have access to this acceleration of the pace of information technology.

The earliest quantum processors were used to power heavily automated testing of those very processors' siblings, testing which revealed flaws that took a long time to iron out at the basic engineering level. ÊBy 2064, several Unix-based operating systems throughout the US were being powered by quantum chips. ÊHigher level user-interfaces were built, and the industries which had invested through the think tanks began to exploit the newfound computing power.

Quantum Computing used to be a mythic branch of Computer Science. ÊAcademics would joke that any societal advances it could lead to would be preemptively undercut by the destruction of the global infrastructure due to encryption-cracking. ÊThis is because RSA, the most widely-used form of encryption, had its impenetrability predicated upon humanity's lack of an ability to factor large prime numbers in a reasonable amount of time, and Shor's Algorithm is capable of factoring large primes in polynomial time when run on a quantum computer.

Many theorize that it was a hobbled and disenfranchised China that was responsible for bringing the economy to its knees on December 5th, 2065, when an anonymous group or individual gained access to Pfizer's poorly-secured quantum computer, which was being used to run government-sponsored brute force drug-viability simulations. ÊThe hacker(s) then relegated the prominently visible drug testing software to performing less computationally intensive processes (such as mapping aspirin isomers) so that most of the computer's resources could be surreptitiously devoted to breaking the RSA barriers of several small investment banks.

By the time Pfizer discovered the malicious background process, the hackers had snowballed their attack into a distributed-denial-of-service assailment that slowed the global economy into a shutdown unlike anything since the days following September 11th. ÊThe world's leading scientists (with the absence of an ostracized China) immediately convened to develop a form of secure communication. ÊWithout one, the global economy could not be safely resuscitated. ÊThe result of this convention is the "Prince Tony" (an anagram for encryption) algorithm; a massive system of logical hoops that sender information must be sent through in order to accomplish the same goal of RSA; simultaneous signing and encryption.

The details behind the implementation of the Prince Tony encryption algorithm have been intentionally obfuscated. ÊIn fact, what little is publicly understood about the algorithm comes from a past winner of the International Obfuscated C Code Contest, Albrecht Chutney. ÊHis attempt at a publicly consumable Wiki detailing how the algorithm works was cut short when he suffered a nervous breakdown from which he has yet to recover. Ê His mental exhaustion has been described as "the result of a collision between an unstoppably explicative force and an inexplicable object." ÊOther academics who understand the algorithm in abstract terms know better than to try to explain it at a lower level. ÊIn an age of effectively infinite computing power, easily explainable algorithms are also easily exploitable.

During the market freeze, the world's largest banks latently poised themselves to take advantage of the eventual market thaw. ÊA frozen market is a harbinger of a flurry of activity; every day the market was closed was like a unit of compression being added to a spring that would release as soon as the market opened. ÊEvery day brought information that could not be acted upon immediately, and banks had their programmers and number-crunchers working eighteen hour days and setting up cots next to their cubicles in order to prepare their software to deal with this abrupt change in market conditions.

On January 2nd, 2066, global markets reopened to large-scale fluctuation. ÊChanges in market software had been insufficiently debugged, and rapid computational miscalculations led to dipping and rebounding with greater severity than that of any of the flash crashes that had occurred in the prior fifty years. ÊEverline Financial emerged from the subsequent month's market turmoil as the largest corporation in America, a triumph largely attributed to a strategic deference to human decisions during a time of banking's over-reliance on technology. ÊEverline did not abandon the use of computers altogether, but they did assign a higher standard deviation of certitude to their programs, and this was the key to their success.

Throughout January, the market would sputter for days before taking sharp upturns into temporarily buoyed bull markets. Within each cycle's period, Everline would carefully pick which companies to invest heavily in, focusing on emerging areas of technology with an emphasis on galactic exploration.

The 2066 Freeze and Thaw was thus the first step towards privatized space colonization. ÊIt was the wise investments of Everline that arguably kept the US from crumbling into a subdued economy not unlike that of the early 2010's, and instead directed it towards lunar intrepidity. ÊIt is no surprise then that Everline is seen as such a benefactor of American capitalism.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

****About the author****

Paydan Onthutake is an itinerant journalist and professor of public relations at the Rupert Murdoch School of Journalism.